MM-47372 - rtcd High level guidance (#6218)
mattermost/docs: source/configure/calls-deployment.rst

  # Allow to allocate more memory as needed for more control messages that need to be sent for each socket connected
  net.core.optmem_max = 16777216

The rtcd service
----------------

.. include:: ./calls-rtcd-ent-only.rst
  :start-after: :nosearch:

> The Calls plugin has a built-in `Selective Forwarding Unit (SFU) <https://bloggeek.me/webrtcglossary/sfu/>`__ to route audio and screensharing data. But this SFU functionality can be split from the Calls plugin and hosted on its own, e.g., on its own node in a `kubernetes deployment <#kubernetes-deployments>`__, or its own dedicated server `alongside Mattermost instances <#modes-of-operation>`__ in a cloud service or self-hosted.

Author: Thanks, simplified.

Reasons to use the ``rtcd`` service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> It helps to understand when and why your organization would want to use ``rtcd``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section will help you understand when and why your organization would want to use ``rtcd``.
```

> It helps to understand when and why your organization would want to use ``rtcd``.

Author: Thanks Justine for fixing this.

> First of all, ``rtcd`` is a standalone service, which adds operational complexity. For most small instances of Mattermost there is no need to use ``rtcd``. Instead, use the Calls plugin until performance or reliability becomes an issue.

Author: I went back and forth on this, and to keep the language clear (and to avoid repeating ourselves) I thought it would be best to have a "warning/background" type of paragraph first, and then go into the reasons why (instead of mixing the two). @justinegeffen can you go over this (line 358-360) and let me know if you can think of a better way to phrase it?

> - **Performance and stability of the main Mattermost server(s).** Letting the Calls plugin run the SFU means that calls traffic is being processed by the server that's also processing the rest of the Mattermost data (Channels, Boards, Playbooks, etc). If the Calls traffic spikes, it can affect the responsiveness of the rest of the Mattermost services. Using an ``rtcd`` service isolates the calls traffic processing to those ``rtcd`` instances.

Author: K, added. I'm not sure of the wording though, @justinegeffen can you think of a way of making it less formal? (It reads kind of academic at the moment) (line 362)

> - **Performance and stability of the main Mattermost server(s).** Letting the Calls plugin run the SFU means that calls traffic is being processed by the server that's also processing the rest of the Mattermost data (Channels, Boards, Playbooks, etc). If the Calls traffic spikes, it can affect the responsiveness of the rest of the Mattermost services. Using an ``rtcd`` service isolates the calls traffic processing to those ``rtcd`` instances.

Reviewer: - **Performance of the main Mattermost server(s).** When the Calls plugin runs the SFU, calls traffic is added to the processing load of the server running the rest of your Mattermost services. If Calls traffic spikes, it can negatively affect the responsiveness of these services. Using an ``rtcd`` service isolates the calls traffic processing to those ``rtcd`` instances, and also reduces costs by minimizing CPU usage spikes.

- **Performance, scalability, and stability of the Calls product.** If Calls traffic spikes, or more overall capacity is needed, ``rtcd`` servers can be added to balance the load. As an added benefit, if the Mattermost traffic spikes, or if a Mattermost instance needs to be restarted, those people in a current call will not be affected - current calls won't be dropped. 

> Some caveats apply here, for example emoji reactions will not be transmitted while the main Mattermost server is down. But the call itself will be resilient to main server restarts.

Reviewer 2: That would be the case for any websocket event (muting/unmuting, even signaling at this point). Maybe let's add a generic "websocket events" since it covers more than purely reactions.

> - **Kubernetes deployments.** In a Kubernetes deployment, ``rtcd`` is essentially required; it is the only officially supported way to run Calls.

Reviewer 2: Let's say it's strongly recommended. I don't want to completely close a door on this use-case but set some expectations.

> - **Kubernetes deployments.** In a Kubernetes deployment, ``rtcd`` is essentially required; it is the only officially supported way to run Calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Kubernetes deployments.** In a Kubernetes deployment, ``rtcd`` is strongly recommended; it is currently the only officially supported way to run Calls.
```

  # Allow to allocate more memory as needed for more control messages that need to be sent for each socket connected
  net.core.optmem_max = 16777216

The rtcd service
----------------

.. include:: ./calls-rtcd-ent-only.rst
  :start-after: :nosearch:

The Calls plugin has a built-in `Selective Forwarding Unit (SFU) <https://bloggeek.me/webrtcglossary/sfu/>`__ to route audio and screensharing data. This is the ``integrated`` option described in the `<#modes-of-operation>`__ section above. But this SFU functionality can be deployed separately as an external ``rtcd`` instance.

Reasons to use the ``rtcd`` service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section will help you understand when and why your organization would want to use ``rtcd``.

To be clear, ``rtcd`` is a standalone service, which adds operational complexity, maintenance costs, and requires an enterprise licence. For those who are evaluating Calls, and for many small instances of Mattermost, the integrated SFU (the one included in the Calls plugin) may be sufficient.

Having said that, the ``rtcd`` service provides many benefits and is the recommended way to host Calls for the following reasons.

> - **Performance and stability of the main Mattermost server(s).** Letting the Calls plugin run the SFU means that calls traffic is being processed by the server that's also processing the rest of the Mattermost data (Channels, Boards, Playbooks, etc). In addition to the raw traffic, as the number of simultaneous screen sharing and voice sessions increase, so too will the CPU processing and memory requirements. If the Calls traffic spikes, it can affect the responsiveness of the rest of the Mattermost services. Using an ``rtcd`` service isolates the calls traffic processing to those ``rtcd`` instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance of the main Mattermost server(s). When the Calls plugin runs the SFU, calls traffic is added to the processing load of the server running the rest of your Mattermost services. If Calls traffic spikes, it can negatively affect the responsiveness of these services. Using an rtcd service isolates the calls traffic processing to those rtcd instances, and also reduces costs by minimizing CPU usage spikes.
```
